# SOC-302-Research-Project
My replication package for my SOC-302 Research Project. I took down the stastics on how many individuals support unions, and sought to figure out how factors such as, self employement status, Income after Covid, Political Party Affiliation, Gender, and Union Involvement effect opions on unions, primarly how it effects individuals in being pro union.

# Data
The 2022 General Society Survey (GSS) was used in the research findings for all independent and dependent variables involved in this research project. The GSS data explorer offers a variety of data among responses for a plethora of questions and topics, which is done through online surveying sent out to respondents. Starting in 2022, the GSS data explorer implemented a web based collection survey to reach more households for data collection as well as preserve health in a time post-covid. The GSS explorer aims to collect data through cross-sectional surveys, as well as include specified question modules during each phase of data collection (NORC 2025). In my dataset, there are 420 observations across five variables. The reasons for the discrepancy between my dataset and the total number of observations and the overall 2022 GSS can be attributed to error in data collection, respondents choosing not to answer, as well as not being able to answer and participate in this particular research study as failure to pass screening questions. 

# Operationalization
My dependent variable is opinions on unions, which is measured through the proposed question of: “Workers need strong trade unions to protect their interests.” Respondents were given the choices of A, B, C, and D with A, B being strongly and semi agree which was ultimately recorded to be pro union for the two. C and D responses were conversely semi against and very against with unions protecting personal interest, these responses were also recoded to fall under against unions. Along these procedures, 60% of respondents were found to be in support of the need for strong unions to protect their interests.
My first independent concept, self employment status, was recorded in a simple manner. Respondents were initially questioned on the kind of work they do, as well ultimately if they are self employed or have been in the past. Responses were taken down as self employed (1), or someone else (2). Approximately 12% of respondents have been or were currently self employed, while 88% of respondents were employed by others.
My second independent concept, income change after covid, was measured in five ways. Respondents were asked: “Think about the income of your household before the COVID pandemic compared with now, would you say it has increased, decreased or stayed about the same? Respondents were able to choose between: increased a lot (1), increased a little (2), stayed about the same (3), decreased a little (4), and decreased a lot (5). Recoding was used to combine (1) and (2) as increase, (4) and (5) were combined as decrease, leaving stay the same as is. 28% of respondents recorded that their income had decreased since the Covid pandemic, with 30% of respondents stating that their income had increased in some way since Covid, leaving roughly 48% of total responses having income remain the same since Covid.
My third independent concept, household union affiliation, was measured in four ways. Respondents were asked, “Do you (or your [Spouse]) belong to a labor union? Who? With responses being recorded as, Yes, respondent (1), Yes, spouse (2), Yes, both (3), and finally No, neither (4). Regarding these findings, 88% of households had no one apart of a union, leaving only 12% of households having at least one union member amongst their families.
